# Main Page

This is an implementation of the low complexity graph compression algorithm developed and published by Payam Delgosha and Venkat Anantharam.

# Relevant Publications

> [Delgosha, Payam, and Venkat Anantharam. "A universal low complexity compression algorithm for sparse marked graphs." IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Information Theory (2023).](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10024275)

> [Delgosha, Payam, and Venkat Anantharam. "A Universal Low Complexity Compression Algorithm for Sparse Marked Graphs." arXiv preprint arXiv:2301.05742 (2023).](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.05742)

# Installation 

## Prerequisites 

* c++ compiler
* [Boost](https://www.boost.org/)

## Compile

```
make all
```

# Usage

In what follows, `gcomp.o` is the compiled executable generated by the makefile.

## Compression 

The graph should be given as an input text file in the edge list format described as follows. 

* The first line specifies the number of vertices, say `n`.
* The second line includes the mark of `n` vertices each as an integer. If the graph is unmarked, the second line consists of `n` zeros.
* The third line includes the number of edges in the graph, say `m`.
* Then we have `m` lines each for an edge represented as `i j x y`, where `i` and `j` are the indices of the endpoint, and `x` and `y` are marks (as integers) representing the mark of the edge towards `i` and `j`, respectively.

To compress such a marked graph stored in the file `<input graph>`, use the following command. Here, `h` and `d` are the two height and degree hyperparameters of the compression algorithm (see the paper for details, and the following note regarding these hyperparameters). Also, `<compressed graph file name>` is the name of the file where the compressed graph is going to be stored.

```
gcomp.o -i <input graph> -h <h> -d <d> -o <compressed graph file name>
```

### Additional logging options

The following are optional. 

* `-v`: verbose mode, which prints the compression / decompression progress.
* `-V <log file>`: if specified, the log is stored in `<log file>`.


## Decompression 

To decompress a compressed graph stored in file `<compressed graph file name>`, run the following command:

```
gcomp.o -u -i <compressed graph file name> -o <reconstructed graph file name>
```

Here, the `-u` option specifies the decomperssion mode, and the reconstructed graph will be stored in the file `<reconstructed graph file name>`, in the same edge list format explained in the compression phase.


## A note on hyperparameters

Regrading the height and degree hyperparameters (`h` and `d`, respectively), please see the paper for more details. In theory, the optimal asymptotic behavior is obtained as both `h` and `d` go to infinity. However, in practice, usually best performance is obtained for  `h` in the range 1, 2, 3. The choice of `d` very much depends on the degree distribution of the graph, but usually a trial with small values such as 2, 5, 10, 20 should yield satisfactory results.

# Documentation

Full documentation can be found in `html/index.html`. Also, a pdf version is available in `latex/refman.pdf`.


